Link (The Legend of Zelda)
Link[c] is a character and the protagonist of Nintendo's video game
franchise The Legend of Zelda. He was created by Japanese video
game designer Shigeru Miyamoto. Link was introduced as the hero of
the original The Legend of Zelda video game in 1986 and has
appeared in a total of 21 entries in the series, as well as a number of
spin-offs. Common elements in the series include Link travelling
through Hyrule whilst exploring dungeons, battling creatures, and
solving puzzles until he eventually defeats the series' primary antagonist, Ganon, and
saves Princess Zelda.
Throughout the series, Link has made multiple appearances in a variety of incarnations, but
has been traditionally depicted in his signature green cap and tunic wielding a sword and
shield. He has appeared as both a child and young adult of the elf-like Hylian race.
Within Zelda mythology, Link is the soul of a legendary hero that throughout history is
reincarnated within a seemingly ordinary boy or young man whenever evil arises. To defeat
Ganon, Link usually obtains the mystical Master Sword or a similar legendary weapon
obtained after completing many trials.
In addition to the main series, Link has appeared in other Nintendo media, including
merchandise, comics and manga, and an animated television series. He is a prominent
character in various spin-off games, including Hyrule Warriors, Cadence of
Hyrule and Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity. He has appeared in several other game
franchises, including the Super Smash Bros. series, SoulCalibur II and Mario Kart 8, and
has also been referenced in other games, such as The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim.
Alongside fellow Nintendo character Mario, Link is one of the most recognisable characters
in the video game industry. He has been instrumental in the establishment of the role-
playing video game genre as the protagonist of the series, which has influenced numerous
other video games with its concepts of open world and nonlinear gameplay. According
to Guinness World Records, Link is the most critically acclaimed video game playable
character and the most ubiquitous action-adventure video game character. He was
recognised by the Guinness World Records Gamer's Edition as the second best video game
character after Mario. Critics have named him as one of the greatest and most influential
video game characters of all time.